# masters_thesis
My master's thesis **Investigating the autoimmunity profiles of Covid-19 patients**, carried out the spring of 2021 in the KTH Affinity Proteomics group at SciLifeLab, Stockholm.

This repository is transferred from Overleaf and contains LaTeX files, the R TidyVerse scripts used for data analysis and the figures generated thereof.

The thesis is available in the [KTH publication database DiVA](http://urn.kb.se/resolve?urn=urn:nbn:se:kth:diva-302163).

## Abstract
The clinical severity of Covid-19 varies greatly between individuals, and all underlying risk factors are not yet well understood. Previous studies have shown Covid patients to be enriched with autoantibodies against type I interferons, suggesting autoimmunity may be an underlying factor of susceptibility to severe disease. In this project, the interplay between severe Covid-19 and autoimmunity was investigated in 114 Swedish patients, sampled in AprilMay 2020 as well as longitudinal re-samplings 4 and 8 months later, using the infrastructure of the Human Protein Atlas and the SciLife lab autoimmunity and serology profiling unit. First, 16 patients with few comorbidities were analyzed for autoantibodies at a near proteome-wide scale using planar microarrays, after which a custom antigen panel was assembled based on observed reactivities and literature studies. The antigen panel was implemented in a 384-plex suspension bead array which was run for all patient samples and a control group. Among the Covid patients, 23 antigens were called as differentially reactive and 8 of them were proposed as relevant to immunoregulation or Covid pathogenesis. The results partially replicated previous findings of autoimmunity directed to type I interferons and offer a list of candidate autoantigens for further inquiries.
